@c Copyright (C) 1991, 1992, 1993, 1994, 1995 Free Software Foundation, Inc.
@c This is part of the GAS manual.
@c For copying conditions, see the file as.texinfo.
@ifset GENERIC
@page
@node PPC-Dependent
@chapter PowerPC Dependent Features
@end ifset
@ifclear GENERIC
@node Machine Dependencies
@chapter PowerPC Dependent Features
@end ifclear

@cindex PPC support
@menu
* PPC-Opts::                    PowerPC Options
* M68K-Syntax::                 Syntax
* M68K-Moto-Syntax::            Motorola Syntax
* M68K-Float::                  Floating Point
* M68K-Directives::             680x0 Machine Directives
* M68K-opcodes::                Opcodes
@end menu

@node PPC-Opts
@section PPC Options

@cindex options, PPC
@cindex PPC options
The PowerPC version of the GNU assembler, @code{@value{AS}}, has a few machine
dependent options.

@cindex @samp{-mppc} and related options
@cindex architecture options, PowerPC
@cindex PowerPC architecture options
@code{@value{AS}} can assemble code for several different members of the
PowerPCfamily.  The default depends upon how @code{@value{AS}}
was configured when it was built; normally, the default is to assemble
code for the PPC 602 microprocessor.  The following options may be used to
change the default.  These options control which instructions and
addressing modes are permitted.  The members of the PowerPC family are
very similar.  For detailed information about the differences, see the
Motorola and IBM manuals.

@table @samp
@item -mppc
@itemx -mppc32
@itemx -m403
@itemx -m603
@itemx -m604
Assemble for the PowerPC 603/604.  These 32-bit PowerPC chips are virtually the 
same from the point of view of the assembler.

@item -m602
Just like -mppc except replaces some double-precision floating point 
instructions with their single-precision equivalents.  This is a kludge to
correct bad compiler output so it will probably go away in the future.This is 
the current default.

@item -m601
Assemble for the PowerPC 601.

@item -mppc64
@itemx -m620
Assemble for the 64-bit PowerPC 620.

@item -V
Print the assembler's version number.

@node PPC-Syntax
@section Syntax

@cindex PowerPC syntax
@cindex syntax, PowerPC

This version of @code{@value{AS}} uses instructions names and
syntax compatible with most PowerPC manuals.  The basic syntax is also
compatible with the Diab assembler, allowing it to assemble the output of the
Diab compiler.  Note that the syntax for macros and @samp{.equ} are two 
notable incompatibilities.

@cindex PowerPC register names
@cindex register names, PowerPC
The following register names are understood:

@table @dfn
@item General Purpose Registers
@samp{r0} through @samp{r31} or
@samp{R0} through @samp{R31}

@item Floating Point Registers
@samp{f0} through @samp{f31} or
@samp{F0} through @samp{F31}

@item Condition Register Fields
@samp{cr0} through @samp{cr7} or
@samp{CR0} through @samp{CR7}
@end table

@node PPC-LocalLabels
@section Local Labels

@cindex local labels, PowerPC
@cindex PowerPC local labels

Local labels in the PowerPC assembler begin with @samp{.L}.
No symbolic information will be generated for local labels.

@node PPC-Chars
@subsection Special Characters

@cindex special characters, PowerPC
@cindex PowerPC line comment character
@cindex line comment character, PowerPC
@cindex comments, PowerPC
The line-comment character is @samp{#}.  
